Data Structure : 

            Way of organizing and store a data so that it can be accessed and modified efficiently .


                              Types of Data Structure : 
                              
                              1 ) Bulit-in Data Structure  : Array , object , Set , map 
                              2 ) Custom Data Structure : LinkedList , Stack , Queue , HashTable , Tree , Graphs .


Algorithms : 

            Set of well-defined instructions to slove the particular problem effectively and efficiently .

                              Algorithm analysis : 
                  
                              1 ) Time Complexity    : Amount of time taken to excute the code .
                              2 ) Space Complexity  : Amount of soace taken to excute the code .


Asymptotic Notation : 

            Mathematical tools for represents the time and space complexity .

                              1 ) Big- O notation  (O) :  worst-case complexity 
                              2 ) Omega notation ( )   : Best-case complexity 
                              3 ) Theta notation ( )     : Average-case complexity 
            Examples : 

                    1 ) Constant Time – O(1)
                    2 ) Linear Time – O(n) 
                    3 ) Quadratic Time – O(n^2)
                    4 ) Logarithmic Time – O(log n)


Memory Allocation : 

            It a process of reserving a memory space for a variable, object or function in program .

            key concept : 
                   
                   1) Heap memory : This is where objects, arrays and functions are stored .
                   2) stack memory : This is where primitive datatypes like number , string , boolean are stored .

            Memory Management :

                   Js engine use garbage collector for manage memory .if there is an unreferenced elements here in a code that would be deallocated by garbage collector .


Memory Leak : 

            A memory leak occurs when the program doesn't release a memory , that is no longer needed .

            I would causing the program to consume more and more memory over time .

            This can be lead a perfromance degradation and eventually cause the program to be crashed .



    Common Causes for memory leak :

    1 ) Global variable 
    2 ) Event Listener 
    3 ) Closures
    4 ) DOM references 